---
author: bernard-huang
video_id: pvlD3EmXFK8
title: "The future of content optimization for AI (GEO) Exclusive interview with ClearScope"
channel: "Aixplainer"
published_at: 2026-04-13
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pvlD3EmXFK8
collected_by: fetch_youtube_transcripts.py (yt-dlp)
---

# The future of content optimization for AI (GEO) Exclusive interview with ClearScope

**Channel:** Aixplainer
**URL:** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pvlD3EmXFK8
**Published:** 2026-04-13

## Transcript

I interviewed Bernardet Juan, the founder of Clear Scope. And as I as the founder of I explainer, I wanted to know everything that is going to change with the rise of AI and JBT, especially in terms of search and content marketing. In the past, you could just have put a few keywords into a long form article and you may have been found in Google. But now with the rise of AI and JGPT, that no longer holds true. JGPT is searching for relevant information on the internet. And if you want to be part of that information, you need to optimize for AI and for chat GPT and not just for Google. Now, how all of that works and what implications are for content marketing and SEO, that is exactly what we're going to discuss in this interview. So, stay tuned and learn what the future will hold for you. My background in SEO goes back 12 years. At this point, traffic is largely diminishing. In this new world, we are no longer competing for traffic. A lot of users are turning towards chat GPT cla perplexity. Google has AI overviews which basically summarize answers on behalf of users. We as brands need to be competing for influence in the model. In the future, and I strongly believe this to be true, you're not going to search. you're going to have a conversation with an agent. >> In this new age of AI, you need to be a real expert in your field. Does it make it harder to to be mentioned or to be picked up? Um or would it make it maybe easier? Hello. Hey, Bernard. How you going? So nice that you're here uh in this interview with I explainer. Uh thanks for making the time. You're the founder of Clear Scope. Um I'm the founder of I explainer about how to use AI for marketing and uh other purposes for the everyday professional. Um maybe you'd like to start off with with a little introduction on uh what Clear Swoop is about and your background in marketing and SEO. >> Sure. Well, Victor, thank you so much for having me. It's a true honor to be a guest. My background in SEO goes back 12 years at this point. I started as a growth hacker at a Silicon Valley company called 42 floors. And after hacking a bunch of growth, turned out that SEO was our best channel. So, we scaled an entire SEO strategy where I was buying links and doing all the, you know, bad nasty stuff that you're not supposed to do and got in trouble with Google. But, you know, that's a story for another day. From there, I transitioned to starting an SEO agency where we worked with a lot of different high- growth companies like Door Dash, Strava, Teespring, Compass, and we learned very quickly that there was a lot of different techniques to improve your overall SEO presence. One of the techniques that worked really well was taking entities from a natural language processing perspective and using that to inform whether or not a piece of content is actually covering the relevant topics that a AI algorithm is looking for. We took that we ran with the concept and we bootstrapped clear scope as a content optimization software about 9 years ago. So we helped content teams from HubSpot, Nvidia, Deote figure out how to write highquality content. And fast forward to 2022 when chat GPT came out, the entire SEO industry basically was rocked. And as of this year, we've rolled out a completely brand new toolkit to help people understand how to tackle AI search. You may have heard it called answer engine optimization or AEO, generative engine optimization or GEO. And our software now helps everybody understand what's going on in that particular space and also to track the different prompts across Gemini and GPT and then to build content that has a high likelihood of influencing the models, winning citations and getting your brand mentioned in AI >> in JBT instead of just in mentioned in Google. And that sounds to me that that will completely change the ball game in terms of um making yourself known in the world. Uh and we'll talk a lot about that more in this conversation. Um but we'll cover that. We'll cover all the implications for for marketing, maybe some technical things as well. And of course, I'd like to learn more on what Clear Scope does and what the future of AI will will bring to us. >> Yeah, it's a wild world, but definitely let's let's dive in and let's let's cover everything. Okay. So, today we're talking about agentic search. It's a bit of a new term. It's basically how an AI agent can help you in in search compared to how a search engine would in the past. Uh, of course, there's still search engines. Uh, but it looks like now the ball game has changed from SEO to GEO, the generative engine optimization. Uh, and before we delve into that, maybe just a quick recap of what classic uh, search engine optimization would entail, I listed here a couple of um, things that a traditional SEO marketer would uh, would focus on. Of course, there's loads and lots more. The Google algorithm is so complex as some of the dating points. So, it's not only this. U, but I'd say that this is what a normal SEO specialist would focus on. Um, is that right? >> Absolutely. Yeah. So, you're definitely targeting keywords that have monthly search volume that people are typing into Google. You're using latent semantic indexing or LSI keywords, fancy way to say entities or topics surrounding the body of content that you're writing about. You're building links from authoritative sources and you're making sure your technical SEO is up to snuff. And in that old world, you would get rewarded with search traffic that Google would send to your site because you ranked in the top spots on Google for the keywords that you care about. >> Okay, that that's good to know. And it is of course with aentic search, it has changed from keywords to more of a landscape. Um, so I summarized that into the the next slide like how SEO and um generative engine optimization would work in in this new age of AI. Um, I learned that instead of just focusing on on on a keyword, you're more focusing on all the keywords that are around it and depth of content knowledge. So just not one post or uh one optimized um page, but focusing on being the real expert on something. And on top of that to also be able to to to let the JCP or other agent let it summarize and ensure that they can crawl it in such a way that they will mention you because the whole aim of the game is not only to be mentioned by Google but the aim of the game is that JP or Gemini or other platforms will quote you for your knowledge and in order to to have that um they need to be sure that you are an expert on what your what your site is about. Um, is that is that roughly it or would you like to add a few things on on how it works? >> No, no, you you hit the nail on the head. I can add a lot of things. These are just more of the technical speak if you will since I'm so deep in >> Yeah, I'm interested. I'm learning. >> Yeah. Yeah. In in the language. So, when you have on your your first, you know, point focus on concept clusters and semantic intent. Why this is important is because when you're interacting with an AI agent, whether it be AI mode or chat GPT, what these different language models are doing is that they're performing a variety of searches on your behalf. In technical GEO speak, we've been calling this a query fan out. So as an example, if I were researching best TVs for an apartment then and I queried that to chat GPT, chat GPT would then subsequently perform three separate searches where it says okay well what are the best highdefinition TVs. It would also perform a search to say what are the best compact TVs because it's recognizing that I am in an apartment and I probably don't have as much space than you know say if I were to live in a house. It's also saying it's also performing a search you know like what is the best 43 in TV just as another example of a smaller TV that could fit into a smaller space. What this is doing then is saying that, you know, in a traditional SEO world, you might just say, well, I sell TVs and I care about the keyword, best TVs. But since these models are performing research on behalf of the user, it becomes way more important that you have content created that targets the entire journey that a user might be interested in. So the concept of creating concept clusters then means that I should create content for best TVs for small spaces, best TVs for you know like 43 in that kind of stuff. And the more granularly I can break that out, the more surface area that I present to the language model to prove that I am indeed an authority on TVs and that's why you should trust my like research. So that's what we're finding as the key difference, right? You're no longer chasing after keywords, you're chasing after topics. And then from a traffic perspective, what we're finding is that traffic is largely diminishing, right? Google has AI overviews which basically summarize answers on behalf of users. A lot of users are also turning towards chat GPT cla perplexity and just simply asking those AI agents for the answer that they're getting back in this new world. Just to be crystal clear, we are no longer competing for traffic. We as brands need to be competing for influence in the model. Right? Because in the future, and I strongly believe this to be true, in the future, you're not going to search. You're going to have a conversation with an agent, whether again that's AI mode, Apple Intelligence, Microsoft Copilot, whatever it may be. And these agents will then provide you answers to your questions. In this new world, we are then designing our content and our websites to be the recommendation that these agents are going to be giving for the questions that users are going to be asking. So the equation becomes how do I influence this agent to recommend my brand rather than how do I rank a piece of content so that somebody will click on it. Right? completely different landscape of how to think about what's going on in this new age of AI. You need to be a real expert in your field in order to to be mentioned. Does it make it harder to to be mentioned or to be picked up? Um or would it make it maybe easier? Because with AI you can also generate a lot of content about TVs and related searches. So in a way using AI you could expand your expertise and pretend or a little bit fake it till you make it and sound like an expert on TVs even though you really may not really be one. I can answer that with a variety of different approaches ranging from you know what in traditional SEO speak we would say black hat which is you know you probably shouldn't be doing it it's against what Google and you know these kinds of things care about but yes in a nutshell AI has made written content largely a commodity therefore it is very easy to scale a content strategy, right? We could literally take >> best TV 42 in, best TV 43 in, go down the list and have write singular pieces of content that address each one of these different concepts. And in a way it would work, but in another way you would probably eventually be caught by a spam team, whether it's OpenAI spam team or Gemini spam team, and then they would be, you know, they would frown upon that. So that's like on the really black hat side. And then on the really white hat side, you know, you have all of these people running around saying, well, you got to get more brand mentions, right? Like the fact that you know Samsung gets mentioned alongside TV very frequently means that Samsung is likely to be a recommended TV option, right? And and then you know these white hat folks then just say well you know build a great product and then people will want to recommend your brand alongside you know the product category that you care about. Now, you know, as much as as I would like to believe that, which it is true, but that takes, you know, years, decades, right, to build a brand that's that recognizable, you kind of have to be a little, I guess, you know, wanting to take a few shortcuts. And so, I think the middle ground, at least currently from a tactical perspective, is cover the topics that make sense, right? Compact TVs are probably TVs from 18 in to 44 in, right? And so create a piece of content on that. Create a piece of content on midsize TVs and create a piece of content on large TVs, right? You've covered most of the bases. And then tactically speaking, right, if you're a new, say, TV manufacturer, you know, go to Reddit and start to comment on different threads to bring up your brand and, you know, buy some PR. that says, "Hey, there's this new, you know, TV manufacturer that has entered the space and, you know, they focus on LEDs or whatever your unique spin is." And that will then further give these models confidence that your brand is legit. pair your brand with the product category that you know you want to be associated with and then you have the content to back up the AI models when they go and scrape the content to then understand okay when I'm recommending a TV I should go with Bernard's TV and Samsung as the recommendations. So basically, even though AI could potentially expand the options for black hat SEO, which of course is not great, at the same time the content moderation team at OpenAI, but also Google um will pick it up. I learned from this that we should not use AI to just pretend and fake it till you make it. In a way, AI will protect the general people from all this content that's not really expertise. >> That's the hope. That's so there will always be loopholes and once those loopholes are found and exploited you know the teams will go and patch them and then the loopholes will be fixed. How to stay relevant in in this current current age uh with AI for that there is the age old rule from Google that you already mentioned the EAT rule. Uh, I pull it up here for a moment. Um, for people that are not yet that familiar with SEO, it is important to Google that your content shows you have genuine experience. Like what you write about is about your experience or your firstand or secondhand research. Um, that you're an expert in your field. An expert sounds like a big word. You don't necessarily need to have a PhD in what you're writing about, but even if your website is about cupcakes, you need to have some experience in making cupcakes and how to do that. Authoritiveness means that um you're a bit of an authority in that field that people endorse you for your skill. So you're just not baking some random cupcakes, but people actually say, "Yeah, the cupcakes you made are amazing and really good and I want to copy your recipe." And with that comes trustworthiness. People believe that what you say is is true and correct. And when like this is already the SEO rules from the preAI era, uh it sounds like they still exist. um they may even become more important and out of these four I would personally say um like expertise you can rely on AI to some extent AI can make mistakes but you can you can borrow a lot of expertise have an expansive search and it is got maybe 10 scholarly articles in your your document that you don't need to research yourself anymore so in a way you could kind of borrow it even though it's leaning towards black hat but then for experience AI of course doesn't have experience and trustworthiness is still something can we trust it or not so given these four rules that still exist. How do I use AI whilst I know they need to satisfy these parameters? >> So I'll try my best to summarize it in a succinct manner. EAT experience, expertise, authority and trustworthiness came about from a Google PR campaign that Google has launched over the last few years. Where this exact terminology came from was the manual search evaluator guidelines. And what that means is that Google employs hundreds if not thousands of people whose sole job is to inspect the search engine results and then rate whether or not content that is ranking in those spots meet these criteria that you've laid out over here. They liter it's like Tinder. They literally are like swiping left and right. They're like presented with a content experience like good or bad. And they're like, "Yeah, this one looks good. This one looks bad." And essentially what they're doing is that they're training their machine learning to identify patterns and variables that say, you know, this is a good piece of content because there's an author bio and they're providing citations and so on and so forth. And this is a bad piece of content because, you know, there is no author bio and we don't trust what they have to say. So that's essentially where this concept of EAT came from. Um what it's actually representing though is the fact that Google uses real user engagement signal to inform whether or not content results on the top spots should belong in the top spots. A very easy example is let's go back to TVs. Say I'm searching best TVs for apartments and we have CNET as number one and Wire Cutter as number two. Google's actually measuring using Chrome data and you know all the other data that they collect on us to say okay well user A when presented with CNET on top and wire cutter on the bottom clicked on CNET stayed there for 5 minutes came back clicked on wire cutter stayed there for 20 minutes never came back to Google right so if Google looks at that they might say well that result number two that had 20 minutes and we never saw the user again. Maybe that result number two should be result number one. And so the next day you might see wire cutter as number one and CNET as number two. And they rinse and repeat this experience or experiment. And then over time they say okay yes you know this should be result one this should be result two and they're basically using user engagement signal to inform you know those specific rankings. Yeah, and I I understand and in a way Google has this advantage that it can track what users are doing and it's it's testing um the websites on it on its own audience in a way uh and continuously optimizing is an AI agent doing the same thing or does AI have the same um knowledge because I understood that AI is based on all the information that's out there and it's it's usually cut off by a certain date >> now some some can access the internet So there's some improvements there, but the wide data variety that that Google owns um and that they can draw from that's maybe not as extensive for um uh test GPT or maybe I'm wrong. I'm just curious. >> Yeah, I mean so that presents a very interesting question as we move into this era where again search or information retrieval becomes more around agents rather than search and clicking on blue links. So, first off, some more background. What has come to light as of recent is, you know, it was a news article. I think it came out a couple months ago, but essentially what was discovered was that all of these different large language models are scraping Google, right? Yeah. So that's why Google, you know, again, this is all like industry speak and stuff, but that's why Google implemented this change in how they serve the search engine results page. In the past, there was a way to say, "Give me the top 100 results," and Google would give you the top 100 results. What these large language models basically did was they queried exactly that particular, you know, variable to say, give me the top just the top 100 rather than top 10. And then they would get the top 100 results. And they would then look at all of that content to then inform whether or not you know the response that they're giving back to the end user is accurate. It's relevant. It's up todate. And they knew that by scraping Google, Google content is already battle tested by user engagement signal, right? So basically it was a shortcut to highquality relevant content for any given topic. >> Google caught wind of it. you know, obviously they weren't happy. So, they dis they basically stopped that from happening and you can't scrape the top 100 results on Google anymore and that, you know, changed, you know, how large language models well now query for this particular information. But anyways, long story short, um what we're finding is that EAT is kind of a dying concept. And what I what I mean >> it's still relevant in SEO, but >> what we're moving towards is a future world where users are not meant to engage with top ranking content, right? Like if you've been to AI mode or you use chat GPT to ask a question, you're not clicking on any of the links. You are simply getting an answer and a response back that the model believes to be relevant, highquality that is based off of the top ranking search results. When AI mode eventually becomes the default way that people search, well, guess what? The user engagement signal goes out the door. at least from a classical perspective of click on you know result number one stay for x amount of time right that's not going to happen >> and so >> these models actually have to start relying on different inputs to gather whether or not the content they're you know basically giving the user is actually good so in that way EAT right signaled Google saying user engagement signal matters when people click click on things. But if we're moving towards this world where people are no longer clicking on things, then does EAT actually matter? And that itself, I think, is a very interesting question. >> Yeah. Okay. So, it still matters, but only as far as the agent relies on Google for the top results. >> That's right. >> And eventually, um, they will probably want to move away from that. >> Exactly. Wait. So for the short run, it gives Google a bit of an advantage with with Gemini >> because they have both data sets inhouse. Um whereas OpenAI needs to rely on Google as a third party which is also their competitor. Uh but but that advantage will eventually dry up. You say >> I don't know about dry up but it'll change right. I think the idea of EAT will be gathered through interactions with AI agents rather than you know like users clicking on results. That whole concept I think is still TBD because basically when you're interacting with chat GBT what determines whether or not the interaction is positive or negative right it's a very interesting question that I'm sure the machine learning specialists over there are thinking actively about so in one example I could say you know what is you know who is the first president of the United states. I could ask that to chat GBT and chat GBT would say George Washington and then I would conclude my conversation with chat GBT because I found my answer in that particular outcome. the machine learning specialists at you know OpenAI could say yes we gave a great answer to the user's question however right let's say I'm doing research on TVs right and I say you know best TVs and it says blah blah blah blah blah and then I'm like okay but I live in an apartment so best TVs for small spaces and then it says you know this this and that and then I'm like oh and by the way you know I'm kind of clumsy so best durable TVs because I tend to knock things over, right? I'm having a dialogue now with this, you know, chat GPT experience, you know, could we really say that, okay, because the first response we gave to the end user did not answer the question that this is a bad experience. We can't say that, right? Because the user is going back and forth having a conversation with Chad GPT. So in essence, right, user engagement signal when you're talking about interactions with an AI agent are not so crystal clear, right? What is a good experience? It's not just getting an answer and leaving, but it's also not having a, you know, 50 page dialogue of you going back and forth with the agent. And so anyways, that's to say, okay, in this new world, I'm not sure how user engagement signals should be like used. And in that world, you know, does experience, expertise, authority, and trustworthiness matter? And I don't know, right? I just it's too subjective, you know, to like measure what that even means. >> Yeah. Because the same behavior like Google could very clearly tell if the dwell time is longer, that means the user is more engaged. And if they click and go back straight away, then they bounce and they're not engaged. And then that's very easy to say. >> Yes. Whereas with AI, you don't know if they like the response, they just want to refine this response. >> Um, >> exactly. >> Yeah, that that's difficult to say. And so, yeah, then it's hard it's hard to know what what we're trying to optimize for. >> Yes. And something I've noticed in Jet GPT is in the beginning it would always give you a lot of text straight away, but then you need to read it all, which is also a bit annoying. And now it often tries to refine the question. If I if I ask something to do or to to generate for me, it ask me, do you want it this way or that way? And and once it's done, it's asking for like maybe I could do this next step or that next step. And that that really helps in in getting it more user friendly because what we don't want is all this generated text that you then need to sift through as the user. That's not really helping. >> Exactly. Yeah. The whole point of why this whole AI thing is is happening and being so effective is that users don't want to read, right? They don't they don't want to sift through that 2,000word article, unfortunately. I don't know. Yeah. Anyways, but yeah, they just want AI to say, "Here's the answer. Here's what you should do. Here's why it matters. This and that." And if that's the case, then you know a lot of these classical ideas no longer have as much weight. >> I put forward a few goals that I think are important in nowadays um online marketing. Um personally I'm an online marketeer myself and these are some goals that I set for myself for SEO and AI. But I just want to get your professional opinion if this is still what we should be focusing on or if not um working on my online business uh or if I'm working for a client and they want to get better results in Google NI uh what should I really be focusing on um now that EAT is a little bit devalued? >> Yeah, great great question and I think the goals that you've mapped out here are excellent goals. I think the difference in approaching GEO versus SEO lies in the nuance of accomplishing the goals. So goal number one, get found, ranked in SEO and interpreted in AI. That is a great goal. In traditional SEO speak, we would say you start with keyword research, right? How many people are searching best TVs? And then you have a difficulty score. that's attached to it, right? Lots of top ranking content, has a bunch of backlinks pointing to it. So, it's a difficult keyword, but you know, 50,000 people per month search for it. So, it's a valuable keyword, especially because it's best TVs and it has commercial intent. Therefore, I as an SEO will try to go after this keyword. That is the old SEO way of thinking about tackling you know that particular model. In the new world of AI, what you have to think about is the topic which is best TVs and then you have to look under the hood of how AI models are performing additional research surrounding that particular topic. And in you know GEO speak we would call this AI web searches right? So when you go and you ask Chad GPT best TVs it says searching right when it says searching what it's doing is it's fanning out a bunch of different research that it believes to be important for that particular topic. Again it could be best TVs, best OLED TVs, best TVs for small spaces, cheapest TVs, so on and so forth. But it's basically spreading out its research across all of these different topics to then build a response to the end user. >> I I understand. And I was wondering in in that content creation process, is it is there still a lot of room or I'll say valuation for human originality? Because AI can create a lot of content for you. how a human approaches it is still better or more unique than how I uh AI approach it. However, the other thought I had was well does AI actually recognize what is human creativity and what is AI made creativity and does it even matter to the search engine? >> I I gave a rather in-depth and technical talk at Hrefs Evolve last year on this exact topic. So in again technical speak what you're referring to is this idea of what we would call information gain. So what do we mean by information gain? Basically what large language models are at a very high level is it's a probabilistic autocomplete. Right? It knows that certain words should follow certain other words and then it knows certain sentences should follow certain other sentences and it's able to build a response based on highly probable next actions right next words next sentences next paragraphs in that like model basically what you end up with is a lot of redundant concepts right again if we go back to now let's say you know what's Who's the first president in the United States? Basically, first president United States George Washington is almost a onetoone. You know, if somebody says this, then the answer is that. And that was solved a long time ago with featured snippets in in SEO. So, okay, what about originality? Does it matter? You know, is Google actually looking for that? Which then brought about this concept of entities and information gain? the, you know, short answer to then what I discovered is that it doesn't matter. Um, >> doesn't matter. So, originality is not really something that AI values. >> No, it's not. >> No. >> Yeah. Because essentially what happens is that Google says, "Okay, cool. You're a new piece of content and you're talking about all of these original things. Let's just test it." So, they'll put me as position number three. they'll send some users there and say, "You tell me did did that did that sound good? Did you like that?" >> So, Google actually has no idea >> and it doesn't care. It like honestly literally doesn't care that you're providing new, unique, and interesting insights to the table. It just says, "Let's we'll just send some real users there and let's let's see what they say." And let's say everybody lands on it. It's this completely brand new article on TVs and why this model is different and how we should think about them moving forward, but everyone who lands there says, "Wow, this sucks." And then they leave and they never come back to my site. Google's going to look at that and say, "Yeah, okay, that sucks." So, let's just get rid of that and and you know, forget about that. And that's that's essentially what happens. So yes, originality can be rewarded. But by default, it is not rewarded. What is rewarded is giving users an engaging and interesting experience. And that could be completely AI generated. It doesn't matter. It just has to be unique. It just has to be engaging. And that's that's all that matters. and something I want to learn about what you do at Clear Scope. Um, you build a platform where you can do exactly what you just talked about. Um, the it research what's already out there. It ranks um how hard it is to score on both Google and on AI platforms or agents, if I said it right. um it provides a bit of a landscape instead of just keyword difficulty that that classic SEO does and then it generates an article for you based on the found keywords and and the connectivity between all these keywords in in in the specific topic. Um did I say it more or less right? Um I wanted to check on that. >> Yeah, you did. Yeah. So, right, we do traditional keyword research where we cluster together topics, but then we layer on the prompt to those topics and then we show you the range of fanout queries that the AI is performing under the hood. So that way you can create content that matches, right, all of the different research angles that these agents are performing. And then you want to create content, right? So then we have an AI content generator that then takes all of those lexical, you know, latent semantic terms, packages them together for you, so you know whether or not the content you're producing is entity rich and very relevant, and then you publish that, and then finally, we track all of this for you. So when you start to win AI citations and search traffic, you get alerted to say, "Hey, this page has now been cited by Gemini or GPT." So that's a good thing and you should probably go back and, you know, make sure that those pieces of content are kept very fresh, very relevant because AI is actually citing those and looking at it, >> which would be an amazing thing. Of course that's what we all want in this this new day and age is basically this also both to create the content or identify I should say identify right keywords then create it and then monitor it and in a similar way that Google console does it for you for your website um more or less is that is that what I'm calling it right >> that's right yes and so we do that for Gemini we do that for chat GPT and of course we do that for your traditional Google search Okay, that is that is very interesting. Um I also tried it out for myself and um on I explainer I thought it was very interesting and very it works very well. I I made a few articles based on on your software. Um if anyone who's listening today would like to check it out, uh there's a link below that you can um see the software for yourself. Uh it's maybe something you uh you want to consider for your online business. Um but before we del further into that I would like to ask a few more questions on uh the future of AI platforms. Uh we talked a bit on how um like AI agents will take over the the the reliance on on Google so to speak. Um now that there's this big shift in in tech uh and Google is is like the the the single monarch in this in this field. But now that we have this new players, um could potentially open AI um break further into market share? Like could they for example start a browser that is AI powered just like Google created Chrome uh or other AI products or am I just dreaming here? What what is the future entail? You think >> I mean you're not dreaming that that literally just happened like last week open it is happening at the moment. >> Yeah. Launch just called Atlas. >> Oh, there we go. >> Yeah. Yeah. The the funny the funny thing about it all is that Atlas is built on top of Chrome. So it all still, you know, flows back to Google, if you will. But I think that yeah, it's very interesting in that the future of search is conversational and you know more specifically you're going to be looking at chatbot like experiences but across a variety of different applications right what we're starting to see is that okay if somebody you know wants something a bit more research focused they might go to perplexity right if somebody wants something more coding focused they might go to claude right so different models are basically specializing in different use cases in different industry sets and I think that that's exactly kind of how this this world is going to unfold right Apple will have Apple intelligence that may be powered by claude or something who knows but different ecosystems will focus on different niches and use cases where they shine and I think that that's where the like the industry is heading. >> Okay. Uh so then you will probably have a specific platform for a specific need like yes I think the most users for any question you have you just go to jetp uh now we learned that maybe for some uh applications uh Gemini hugging chat claw perplexity is could be better um and maybe idea in a few years we have a different platform for a different for a different need one generate your recipes one generates your training schedule one is for your online marketing. Um is that a bit how how it's going to go or >> I think basically Google Google is going to win this >> again >> this space. >> Uh I mean they own Android, they own Chrome, they own YouTube, they own Google search, they own Google Maps, they own Gmail, G Suite, they have all of the data already. So Gemini is going to be the best default AI like engine. Yes, GPT will still, you know, have market share, but yeah, then everybody else will fight for the specialized like sorts of applications that I think we will see unfold. >> Okay. So, even though OpenAI was first with JGPD, you reckon that Gemini will be the the overall market winner in a way that's >> similar to how it went with mobile phones. like Apple was late to the party, but then they became the market standard. >> Yeah, it's it's because uh Google already controls all of the surface area of user behavior. That's that's it, right? I just I just open up Chrome and Google's there. Or if I'm on Android, you know, Google is there, right? So they've already basically established themselves as the default place to search and GBT is you know it's it's fighting an uphill battle when it comes to that. >> Yeah. Okay. That that that's very good to know. So at this stage you should not be focusing on building your new AI platform but you should be using the AI platforms that are out there and applying them to your online marketing. >> Yep. That's right. Interesting. Well, we we're we're nearly coming to the end of this interview. Um, thank you so much for being here uh with me today. Um, if you if anyone would like to try out Clear Scope, there's a link with a special offer uh that is shared below this video, I believe, or I can also show it to you on the screen in a moment. Um before we we end uh I just wanted to to ask you like what is your number one top tip for any online marketeer or um AI consultant like uh what what should people do tomorrow differently in the business schedules uh compared to how they uh today today has been? >> Yeah. You know, I think stay curious, right? Like all these different LLMs, whether it's Claude, Perplexity, Deepseek, Manis, and the list goes on and on, but embrace it, you know, give it a shot. Like you you'll be surprised in terms of how good and accurate it is. It's a new technology. It's kind of threatening feeling, but I think that the future of knowledge work will be dominated by people who use AI. And so, if you've been resistant to it, just check it out. Give it a go. Like, it is certainly game-changing technology. >> Try try out the platforms. Um, and uh it's never too late to learn. That's >> exactly >> And just live on it in a good way. It is all very intuitive. So even even when you're not a technical person, you can still learn it and you can still apply to your daily life. >> That's right. >> Well, thank you so much for making the time today. I really appreciate that. Um was really great to have you here uh in this interview. Um and yeah, I was very impressed with Clear Scope. I encourage everyone to try it out. Um is there any last remarks you would like to make on the product or on the future of AI? No, no. Just thank you again for having me, Victor. Lots of fun and yeah, I I hope to see you all around. >> Sounds good. Sounds good. Okay. Thanks a lot. And please don't forget to like and subscribe the channel. Uh that's the best way to support the channel here on YouTube. Um and that keeps us from uh that actually helps us to keep the good videos rolling. Thanks a lot. See you next time.
