---
author: lily-ray
video_id: f84ovVChEh4
title: "AI-Driven SEO Revolution - Lily Ray on Future of Discoverability"
url: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f84ovVChEh4
collected_by: fetch_youtube_transcripts.py (Supadata API)
---

# AI-Driven SEO Revolution - Lily Ray on Future of Discoverability

**URL:** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f84ovVChEh4

## Transcript

Hey there, welcome to S and Bomb podcast. I'm your host and Nana, head of growth at SAS Group, a serial require buying wonderful SAS businesses to take them to the next level. And here I chat with inspiring founders and experts to get an inside scoop on how they made their business a success. So today with me is Bernard, co-founder of Clear Scope, an AIdriven SEO content optimization tool. Welcome. >> Thank you for having me. >> We had you on the podcast before when when I was just starting with SAS Group and there wasn't that bit about AIdriven blah blah [laughter] >> no >> thing. Now everyone has it and obviously you know I told you before before we started recording we do own a couple of SEO companies in SAS group and I mean everyone is adding AI into because that's that's where we we think the future is. So, you know, before we jump into the recent changes and everything, maybe for those who don't know you yet and don't know what Clear Scope is, maybe a bit of a background and what made you do Clear Scope? >> Sure. So, my first foray into SEO was being hired as a growth hacker when growth hacking was cool in 2013 by a YC company called 42 Floors. Long story short, I hacked a lot of growth, but mainly SEO was the channel that worked really well for us. So, I explored the entire landscape. Black hat, white hat, gray hat, bought links, got manual web penalties, did the whole thing, and really got my hands and feet wet with SEO. From there, my I left and I was working on a bunch of different side projects, but the one thing that Silicon Valley kept asking me for was SEO. And so, as my bank account was running dry, my business partner and I was like, "All right, screw it. Let's just do SEO consulting because people apparently want to pay us for SEO." So we stumbled into SEO consulting where we worked with clients like Door Dash, Straa, Teespring, Compass, helping them navigate how to scale their SEO strategies. From there, we were testing a variety of different possibilities to improve search rankings. And one of the tests was to use natural language processing to inform whether or not a body of content was relevant. So, if we're talking about, you know, say things to do in San Francisco, you would expect that a piece of content talking about that should include concepts like Golden Gate Bridge and Golden Gate Park and Presidio and so on and so forth. So, we basically gave people insights into that. It worked really well and we turned that into a bootstrapped software as a service called Clear Scope. close to 10 years ago at this point. I would say, you know, things went really well up until COVID where things went super well. You know, all all of software basically exploded during COVID and then chat GPT in 2022 2023 basically just changed the entire landscape of how search works and where we're headed. So that's forced us to reposition and pivot our company to now focus on helping people navigate AEO answer engine optimization or GEO generative engine optimization. I think the industry is still trying to figure out what to call it because it's so new and it's so fast changing. >> Yeah, I remember when I was preparing for our first episode that was two and a half years ago. I was uh I mean I am not an expert in SEO, not even close, but back then I was just terrified. And I remember for our podcast I prepared this sheet of like maybe 40 questions because I was like, "Oh my god, I don't know. I [laughter] don't know what we're going to talk about." And what you just said takes me a little bit back back [laughter] to this. But that said, and I I don't know if if that's something I can share publicly, but let's try and you know because you started talking about how SEO landscape is is changing and you know adding this AEO GEO whatever EOS there are and we at SAS group we even had this thought of okay like it's going to collapse completely like all the SEO companies that are out there are going to die and maybe we should not look into any of the SEO tools for for future acquisitions. That was like literally one of the thoughts that we had and we we discussed it and I mean that's not the case. [laughter] [gasps] Good. But >> but yeah, I I'm totally there with you. there is so much confusion and like a lot of companies are rebranding or you know adding tons of features and you did too. I mean now I think you are rebranding or maybe already finished with it into discoverability platform. >> That's right. >> What what does it mean? >> What does it mean? Yeah. So to just build to give the backdrop of what's going on in SEO, you have chat GPT come out November of 2022 and you have Google say, "Oh, okay. That's interesting. That could be a threat. By 2023, you have Google saying, "Okay, we're going to launch search generative experience." If you've been in SEO for a long time, this is the precursor to AI overviews and called it SGE to start. Also, at the same time, they launched Bard, which is the precursor to Gemini. Since then, obviously, the the landscape has evolved very quickly. So, chat GPT posed a unique threat to Google in the way that people discover information and in the way that people write content. Right? Back in the past, 5 years ago, if you wanted a piece of content, you would have to hire a writer, whether that's an in-house writer or an outsource writer or an agency that you're using. And that writer would have to be somewhat of a subject matter expert within the topic that they're writing about. And you know, you would draft an outline, go back and forth, lots of like human editorial. But now you could just go to chat GPT and say, "Write me an article on whatever, and it'll write a pretty convincing, well-written article on whatever you ask it for." So Google obviously has a huge problem on their hands. That's why you're seeing so much change happen in in search so fast. So number one, right, Google recognizes that. >> Can I can I interrupt you there for a second? Because I mean, we all talk about using chat GPT or or whatever it is for writing content. And you know, let's face it, it is pretty good. Especially if you if you invest some time into teaching it, what you need and the tone of voice and like yada yada, it will come up with a fairly good copy. And a lot of people are saying that, okay, you can generate a billion articles and start ranking fairly fast with a new tool. And that's probably also true. But on the other hand, everyone's saying okay but we don't know if at the end of the day it will be penalized and you know all those AI generated articles will be deranked or not you know seen by AI or whatever how what to believe first of all [laughter] what do you believe and yeah where is that balance >> yeah yeah it's a good question So I can answer this concretely from a traditional SEO background and then I can you know have I have some theories on how this is going to unfold in a generative or answer engine optimization. So historically speaking spam on the internet has always existed and has now been exacerbated by AI. Right now, you can click a few buttons and get a thousand articles created and published within, you know, a matter of minutes, hours, again, depending on how technically savvy you are. The way that Google fought this in the past was by running around saying your content needs to have EAT experience, expertise, authority, and trustworthiness, which was really more of the tail wagging the dog than the dog wagging the tail. And what I mean by that is that EAT are simply attributes [snorts] of content that have high user engagement signal. So at the end of the day, how Google has weeded out bad content is that they just test it, right? They say, "Okay, we have, you know, content result number one and content result number two." They send a bunch of users to that setup and they monitor what happens, right? Did user one stay on content result number one? If they did, how long? Did they go back to the search results? Did they click on something else? If they did, how long did they stay there? And what happened next? Right? So, Google is just running an infinite AB test across their search engine results. And what they found was that high quality high quality content was engaging and exhibited attributes of experience expertise authority and trustworthiness. So the Google PR team said, "Okay, we're going to brand this thing. We're going to run it with it and we're going to just say this is what matters." But really what mattered was that somebody landed on your page. they found what they were looking for and they never went back to Google to click on another result or perform an additional search. You can imagine in this in this world if you spun up a th00and 10,000 articles and they were all kind of okay but weren't that great, you know, from a user engagement signal perspective, you just would not rank and Google would weed that out fairly quickly. That said, in an AI world, it's different, right? Because these different models are trained on corpuses of content and data. And who's to say that if I spun up, well, we'll take this to even a more extreme case. Let's say I spin up a thousand domains and within those thousand domains, I create a thousand articles on the thousand domains, right? All of a sudden, we're talking about a digital footprint of 1 million that I'm injecting, right, into the internet, which then some percentage of it will end up as training data that gets used to inform how these large language models work. That presents itself a very unique and interesting challenge for OpenAI and Gemini and Claude and Perplexity and all of these different large language models. What they've been doing at least currently is they've these different language models is that they said well you know who's the best arbiter of information retrieval? Google. So what they've been doing is they've just been going and scraping Google for the search results against this, you know, data set of topics or prompts that they're building their their training data around. Google obviously got unhappy and said, "No, we're going to stop that." Which is why you saw, if you follow what's going on in SEO, Google cracked down on scrapers by removing the possibility for scrapers to scrape the top 100 results for any given query. They've made it basically impossible to do and you can only scrape the top 10, maybe the top 20 at this point. So all the large language model providers were basically saying, "Okay, this is a big problem." And if a thousand domains got injected, each with a thousand different articles, we don't know whether or not that content is valuable and meaningful. But what we do know is that Google search is pretty good. It's user engagement signal informed. So we're just going to trust whatever they have in their index and we're going to use that as the running model. Google has since cracked down on it. And so anyways, we don't know how that then is going to unfold from a web spam perspective on, you know, all these different players sites. >> So, sum it up. [laughter] >> Yes or no on AI generated content? >> Yes. >> Yes. Okay. Oh, wow. That's a new one. That That's the first I'm going to tell you. I'm going to be very honest here. That's the first time anybody said yes. Okay, go do it. >> Go do it. I mean, look, we're here and the new landscape of what we're playing in is not 10 blue links. The new landscape of what we're playing in is influencing the answer. That's it. The new world, whether you like it or not, is going to be a user going to AI mode and having a conversation with an AI agent. Whether again that's Google or Chat GPT or Apple Intelligence or Grock or Proplexity or Claude. Anyways, what whatever it is, it's that's going to be the future of information retrieval. In that world, you're not clicking on anything generally speaking. And so you got to use every advantage that you can have to influence the model's answer and to be part of that answer. And if you're not using AI generated content to at least scale some of your content creation strategies, then you're going to be left behind. >> Yeah. I mean, everyone is also talking about Reddit. Like the the moment we learned that Reddit is going to be prioritized in those AI overviews in Google, everyone just ran off to Reddit to post about their company's tools, services, whatever they were doing. And there are a lot of exper experiments going on. I've heard about this well allegedly not so nice technique that that people are using is when you go to Reddit and you post something and then you basically promote your tool or whatever it is you're doing and then you close the comments so nobody else can go and say, "Oh, you know, but know Clear Scope is better. Use Clear Scope." So that's it's just so funny how I think you're right. We're just trying to influence this answer. So there is no no question of trustworthiness that Google was apparently allegedly after. >> Yeah. Absolutely not. Yeah. I mean to build on top of that what yeah it's it's pretty sophisticated but essentially what you can do is you can create a bunch of different Reddit accounts. You farm the karma by basically going back and looking at previously top ranked you know like upvoted posts and then you either cross-ost them or repost them in the same thread. Right? If something was posted five years ago, got 10,000 up votes, and then you just posted the same thing, is going to do really well, and people have short memory spans, and so you then all of a sudden get a bunch of different accounts with high karma, and then you play off of one another, right? You basically have one of those accounts say, "What are the best AEO or GEO tools?" And then you have another account chime in and be like, "Well, I use Clear Scope." and then you have another account come in and say yes plus one for clear scope and maybe here's some like of these other options and essentially you know if you go way back in SEO days I think this is the equivalent of you know comment spam on forums you know to build links you could even just call this like white text on white background but yes it is essentially a tactic yes it works yes there's a lot of AI comment spam things that are floating around that are basically just trying to insert brand mentions across any keyword that you know a comment or like a post has. And yeah, unfortunately it currently works, but at the same time, I mean, that's been the story of SEO from from day zero, right? It's always been a cat-and- mouse game, right? like somebody finds a loophole, they exploit it and then you know Google fixes it and then it just keeps happening over and over again. And so, you know, the initial question that you asked me is like, yeah, like we should as growth marketers and software owners and just people who are looking to get ahead exploit all the loopholes that we could find until they get plugged and then yeah, look for the next loopholes. So, that's all that's all that I'm suggesting. So, we're we're a little bit back into this growth hacking grow overnight accla >> unfortunately. >> Yeah. >> Yeah. Except now there's like more players, right? Like essentially back then you would say, "Okay, we're just playing the Google game." But now you playing an OpenAI game. You are also playing a Google game. You're also playing a Gemini game that's similar to the Google game but not quite. And so there's all kinds of different, you know, like models to pay attention to because AI is the gold rush. And different models have different tendencies, if you will. And so if you exploit open AI, then you know, will that end up exploiting Google? It's tough to say. >> Okay. All right. But you one of the thing that I noticed you talking about is not just obviously generating new content but taking care of your content health. So making sure that your content is fresh and you have all the like internal links sorted. So why is that important? And again is there a good hopefully ethical way to do that? >> Yeah. Yeah. very important because the way that AI technology works again at a very high level is three different layers. Number one foundational layer you have training data. Training data is essentially a corpus of documents that a large language model ingests to then you know build responses off of. Technically speaking this corpus of data will come with a knowledge cutoff right. So the latest Google models are trained on content up till January of 2025. So that's layer number one. Layer number two is what we call the validation layer. What happens during the validation layer is that when you're having a conversation with GPT or Gemini, what happens sometimes is that you ask it something and it says, "Wait, hold on. I'm going to perform a web search." This tends to happen when you're asking about recent things that may have happened, right? I might be like, "What's the price of Bitcoin or, you know, this or that?" In which case, the model does not know because it's only been trained up till a specific date. And so, it must research it and confirm whether or not, you know, what what the new data says. So the validation layer is the fact that AI performs web searches to validate claims that they're making and prevent inaccuracies and hallucinations before generating the response to the end user. The last layer is what what we call the memory and context layer. So the memory and context layer just refers to the fact that based off of previous conversations that you've had with chat GPT or Gemini, the model is likely to skew its response when it responds to you towards the things that it thinks you're going to care about aka personalization. So what you asked right in terms of the like okay does monitoring content matter? The answer is yes. Because what ends up happening is that when the AI performs the web searches, what they're looking for is relevant, updated, and fresh content, right? Because they're only trained up till a specific point. So they want to prevent the inaccuracies. If your content is 5 years old, it's not going to qualify to be a source that you know AI it's not not going to qualify, but it's going to have a much more difficult time qualifying because the AI models prefer content that's more recent, up-to-date, and and fresh. >> Okay. So, is there a way to update your your content? Okay. So, let's say you're clear scope, right? you've been around for 10 years and you've been writing about what you're doing all those years. How are you updating your your content? What do you prioritize? And in the update process, do you do you change the format? Like how do you make sure is there a hack to like reformat old content so it again is being prioritized in the search engines? >> Yeah. this. So this is the new workflow that we're recommending that people take and we're finding good success with it. So again back to that conceptual model layer 1 training data layer two validation layer layer three memory and context right that's the stack. So when a user interacts then with an LLM they'll ask a prompt. What you can then get back is the actual web searches that these models are performing. So a good example is you know if I ask what are the best SEO tools, Gemini literally goes out and it searches best SEO tools, free SEO tools, essential SEO tools and it searches a variety of different concepts. Right? These are the web searches that Gemini has deemed to be important to validate any inaccuracies that it might have before it generates the response to the end user. This acts as the starting point of what we need to be thinking about. Right? So now when we're looking at our existing content, we got to ask ourselves, do we have a piece of content targeting all of the different web searches that these models are performing when they are validating the response to the end user? We might have a piece of content on best SEO tools, but maybe we don't have one on free SEO tools or essential SEO tools, in which case we should create new content assets. again with the aid of AI generated content to help scale this content creation because what we're dealing with is the long long tail of queries when AI performs web searches. Some of them make sense like best SEO tools and some of them make absolutely no sense but they do it anyways because you know AI just kind of does things the way that they do. I like to like attribute it to like in the early days of AI image generation. You know, this is like having an extra finger on like the human being. Like when AI does web searches, sometimes there's an extra appendage or like an extra finger and it like doesn't quite make that much sense, but the AI is going to do it anyways. So this then acts as the starting point for a new type of content creation strategy that is no longer focused on keywords that users are typing in, but instead web searches that AI is performing to validate the responses they're giving back to the end user. So we look at that, right? We say, okay, here are all the AI web searches. Here is our inventory of content. Which ones match up? You know, that makes sense. where are we missing, you know, gaps within the topics that, you know, we care about and we should create new content to match those particular things. When we're then now talking about refreshing the existing content, what we're doing is well just using clear scope to do the entity analysis. And the reasoning as to why that works is because large language models are looking for relevant passages and chunking that to then give back to the end user when they're giving back the response. Right? When you talk about best SEO tools, it wants to see Hrefs and Semrush and Moz because those are the best all-in-one SEO tools. And so by then creating a piece of content and making sure those entities are there, you're basically reinforcing to the model that yes, your piece of content is relevant and it does cover the different entities that it's expecting. What we've then further done at Clear Scope is that we've then taken the query the AI web search and we've actually prompted the models as well. We say okay well for essential SEO tools what you know we just ask GPT and Gemini give us what you think are the essential SEO tools and then we do the same entity extraction against the responses that the AI is giving back and then we flag those in your text editor experience at Clear Scope. So now you not only see the different relevant entities from a search perspective, you also see how they line up with the responses that the AI is actually giving back to the end user. You want to basically in a nutshell stuff as many of those into your piece of content and then what the models when they see that they like basically their eyes light up and they're like wow that is a really rich you know piece of content or passage that I'm saying because it talks about all of these different entities that you know I care about that then allows you to win an AI citation and that kind of goes into the next part of the workflow. But when you're updating content, what you want to be starting with is updating the content that the AI is already citing on your domain or your page because those AI cited pages are essentially being used to influence the answer already. I think that's such an awesome piece and insight because honestly before I don't know a year ago when I started using Chad GPT or any other chats like that I didn't know how to do this right so every time I I thought I need to prompt it and I need to like know exactly what I wanted to do and obviously sometimes the answers were very frustrating. I was like that doesn't work. And then when I learned that, you know, you can ask it the the trick is to ask it. Okay, what is already in you? What what are you already giving other people? What is the answer that you have kind of pre-built in into you? >> The trading data. Yeah. >> Yeah. And then, you know, when when it became really a conversation, it became so much more clear, you know, what to do and and how to use it. But also, to your point about chunks, we recently built this tool we called context, which basically allows you to talk to every podcast episode that that I ever recorded. So we we fed it all the transcripts and at first we were like okay that that works in a really really weird way. It often doesn't know what we're talking about. Cannot give us an answer. And it took some time to figure out that apparently the chunks that we asked it to work with were too small. So it couldn't like in in a three I think it was like 3 to seven seconds of content. I mean what do you say in 3 to 7 seconds right? it just couldn't see like the the the path and when we said okay work with I think now it's about a minute it started working and that was such an essential learning for us to to understand that we need to figure out what kind of chunk of information like what is the best kind of format of the answer that we're looking for. So yeah, is there okay that the kind of the ideal chunk of text in your content that you have to produce so that LLM sees it better than any anything else? So it's a complicated it's a complicated answer because the you know important chunks are often times not so not so apparent right and what I mean by that is that when people are having dialogues with these different AI agents the queries and the shape of the conversation is a completely black box, right? Like in the past in traditional SEO, right? We would say, "Yeah, you know, we target best SEO tools and that's all that matters." But in this new world, if you actually look at the underlying like API calls and what's happening when you're having the conversation, you might start with best SEO tools, it might say Href, Seamrush, Mospro, whatever, right? But then I might say, "Oh, but I'm an agency owner, so I need SEO tools that scale across, you know, a bunch of usage." And all of a sudden, right, like the initial chunk from a, you know, content creation process made a lot of sense. Yes, talk about MA HFS, you know, all of the different features, but all of a sudden, you know, I'm saying usage and, you know, rates and billing and flexibility, right? And these language models are going to be looking then for agency keywords, right? Like if usage or flexibility or whatever, you know, like a term comes up, then that actually becomes important. So in this world, it's very hard to actually say yes, you know, like if we're talking about at best SEO tools do exactly this because we're getting into again I've been calling this the long long tail, but we're getting into long longtail optimization, right? We don't know what's going to happen within a conversation and how that shape is going to happen. So in essence, you kind of have to cover your brand in a very diverse set of ways. And what we're finding is that okay a cover the normal entities that exist for any given topic but then b you know like sprinkle in basically like massage your like brand sentiment for the specific attributes that you think are distinct and important to your business. And that's insights that you know comes from customer success or sales or marketing, right? It's like people know clear scope because of its polished and like intuitive like user interface. And so if we're having a piece of content on the best SEO tools, yes, we're going to talk about HF, Samrush, MA, but then we'll throw clear scope in and when we're describing Clear Scope, we're going to say yes, it's easy to use. It's polished. You know, it might be a little bit pricier compared to other options, but people like, you know, the quality of the recommendations, the customer success team, right? And then when users are now interacting with these different agents and they say, "Okay, best SEO tools." And it says whatever, you know, if they come back and they say, "Well, I need a lot of training." Then the fact that we put customer success in that chunk actually matters a lot because the agent's going to pull that out and say, "Well, then you should go with Clear Scope" because they focus a lot on customer success. Anyways, it's a long-winded way to say know your brand's strengths, know your brand's weaknesses, and you can even ask, you know, these different agents like, "What are my brand's strengths and weaknesses?" And they'll tell you and then use that to then basically massage how these agents are thinking about your brand. And that's probably the most like cohesive answer that you know I can give. >> Yeah, that's super cool. Thank you. And I'm going to back you up here because that's also what I did. I basically created this custom GPT and then ran it to, you know, to find the strengths and weaknesses and, you know, what we focus on and what other acquirers focus on and what we're missing. Is there, you know, a link that that uh we're missing to founders hearts that that would [laughter] set us apart? And it was really very interesting and it gave me a lot of perspective on like what what content we can still produce and like what uh yeah h how to maybe change our messaging a little bit. So yeah, I mean to be to be honest, I'm still skeptical and sometimes actively irritated by by LLMs and and AI, but it also on on the other hand, it's such a cool way to, you know, look at something you you've been working on for a while from a different perspective to kind of escape that tunnel vision that that you develop either way. But you know we started talking about you rebranding into a discoverability platform and then we kind of went away from this. So what else you guys are doing that you think is now essential for all of the rest of us win in SEO or AEO what whatever. [laughter] First, I just want to congratulate you because I just prompted chat GPT about who are the best acquirers of SAS companies and SAS group comes up as number two. So, >> yes, >> looks like y'all are doing something right. >> And then secondly, I think that you know there's a a whole debate if you will going around like GEO or AEO is just just SEO. And while there is a lot of correlations and truth to that, right, just based off everything we talked about where language models are scraping Google and so on and so forth. I think the key difference is within the target queries that you need to be creating content against. And so at Clear Scope, for any given topic or prompt, we show you all of the web searches that Gemini and GPT are performing for that particular prompt. And I think that that is the new way to think about keyword research, right? In the past, keyword research was just monthly search volume and keyword difficulty. And that made sense because we were targeting actual users who were typing things into Google and expecting to click on a a link. In this new world, users are not expected to click on anything, right? They just want to be spoonfed the answer. In which case, the way that you think about your keyword research needs to not be tailored around somebody performing a search, but more tailored around what is AI doing when it's researching the topic for you. What are the keywords? What are the queries that you know they're interested in? and designing your content to match that is the biggest difference that we're seeing between AEO, GEO, and SEO. Because when you look at the web searches, man, some of them are pretty darn whack. You're like, I what what is that even? And it's because AI is AI and it, you know, it just it does its own thing. So, I think that's the biggest difference. And then yeah, so targeting the AI web searches. Clear scope helps with that. Number two is going to be AI cited pages. I think people think about AIDed pages in the wrong like way. And what I mean by that is that they say, well, yeah, it's good that I'm winning an AI sighted page because then I can get traffic from ChatGpt or Gemini. And it's like, no, that's not actually how you should be thinking about it in my opinion. When you win an AI citation, what the AI is telling you is that your content was worthy enough to have been used to inform the response that they're giving to the end user. AI is the whole purpose of AI is not to send you to a website. [laughter] It's to just give you the answer. So getting traffic from AI is just a nice side effect of AI citing your content. But really what you should think about when it comes to AI cited pages and Clear Scope gives you all of the pages that AI is citing against the prompts that you're tracking against is to use those to influence the answer. And so if you see, you know, like AI is citing your about page five times across a variety of different prompts on, you know, how to buy a SAS company, who are the best, you know, purchasers of SAS companies, then you better go to that page and, you know, make sure everything on that page is up to date. It represents your brand correctly. You could even use it in a antagonistic way and put down your competitors and say, you know, like yeah, like that that buy, you know, flippa, like don't go with flippa. They suck, right? And that's important because those pages, you know, are being used to influence the response that AI is giving back. So anyways, long story short, two big things is target AI web searches, not keywords. and win AI citations, but use them to influence the answer that the AI is giving back, not to receive traffic because that's not the point. >> That's super interesting. Just on the side note, not a competitor flipper. [laughter] So, >> yeah. Yeah. Yeah. >> They're good guys. >> I'm just throwing stuff. Exactly. >> Just throwing some stuff out. >> Oh, god. You you you just cost me another event, Bernard. [laughter] But no, no, that that that's really really cool. I think it's it's really like you said like you put it at the beginning it's a very interesting challenge and for me it's always been you know also a challenge to understand like where where is that balance but also where where is the so because you know what is the word I'm looking for repurposing or rewriting or writing new content for chat GPT or any other AEO whatever thing is basically like you said making sure that we have the long long tail words there or queries or call it whatever you call it. So I was like okay so if I'm using the say how how to sell your B2B size company to a serial acquirer what am I doing am I doing SEO am I doing AEO does it matter would it matter to Google to chat GPT so yeah as a person who's like not that savvy in SEO let's It was always just, you know, a thing of understanding where do we land with this new piece of content? Where do we land? Does it help us with chat GPT? Does it help us with with Google? Because after I think I think you're right. We want chat GPT to give us an answer and then what happens? We to validate that answer. I think a lot of people still take it and go to Google and say okay what the hell is SAS group? [snorts] So how how to make sure that Chad GPT gives you an answer that yes okay SAS group is the second best serial requir out there but also make sure that when you go to Google and say what is SAS group is actually SAS group that that pops up there and not something there is a tent company in Russia I think that's called SAS group [laughter] so so yeah it's yeah it's a bit A it's a bit of a black box but also a cool thing to figure out those different types of context. So if you had one tip, one one hack, one one something piece of advice to give to founders, bootstrappers, maybe you know SEO experts out there if they're just beginning with you know their new tools say they want to rank they are building something in AI space what to do how to how to rank how to get charging to love you. >> Yeah. So number one is figure out a topic that you want to own. So you know say with clear scope that would be SEO or SEO content or content marketing, right? And then number two, it's to then understand all of the subtopics within that particular topic. So, if we're talking about, you know, say SEO, then there's onpage, there's off- page, there's, you know, technical, there's how to do it, there's why you should do it, right? There's all of these different things. And then step three is to then design synthetic prompts against each one of the subtopics, right? So, for on page SEO, it'd be like, how do I do onpage SEO? Why is onpage SEO important? you know what is onpage SEO right to then understand all of that you know different landscape. Step three is to then understand all of the AI web searches that are being performed against right all of those synthetic prompts that you've identified for the topic that you care about. This then acts as your blueprint of the universe of keywords that you should go after. Some of them will look very normal like oh the the model searched what is on page SEO. Some of them will look really weird. It'll be like onpage SEO factors 2025 Google official, you know, something like that. So anyways, look at them and then look at the ones that look a little bit weird and then I would say start there. create content against the ones that just look a little bit weird. It'll be like advantages of onpage SEO for manufacturers and you're like that was weird. I don't know why chat GPT like decided to search that but let's you know take a step back. Let's create a piece of content on advantages of onpage SEO for different industries. And by doing that what you're doing is that you are shortcutting the training data like the the stack [laughter] right you're inserting yourself at the validation layer which is actually the easiest way to then influence the models right because influencing the actual training data itself is really difficult you know who knows you know how that works but when AI performs a web search you know it's either crawling in Google or Bing or a combination of both. And that's the fastest way to then get your brand to be mentioned when you know somebody's searching for onpage SEO because you know we've covered that particular angle and that's how I that's how I'd approach that. >> Awesome. So go niche. >> Go niche. Go long long tail. [laughter] >> All right. Well, coming back to to Clear Scope and you know what's been going on with you guys, you know that I have a couple questions that I always ask at the end. So, you know, it's been turbulent. It's been, you know, not easy in the last couple of years. But what has been the biggest win and maybe the biggest failure as well in learning? >> Biggest win, the biggest value in learning. Yeah. [sighs] I think I think the biggest well the biggest learning is that you know nothing nothing is forever right they they say software not software but products have life cycles and I totally get how that all just like play played out and I think gamechanging technology comes you know once a decade once every other decade something like that and I think the big you know one before this was was mobile. But anyways, it was a humbling experience to realize that like you know when you build something and it starts to work, it's not forever, right? You have to keep iterating and you have to keep pushing or else either competitors will come and take your pie or a new technology will just emerge and make a bunch of you know old more traditional stuff obsolete. So I'd say that's the biggest learning. >> What's the biggest win? Let let you know let's let's finish on the positive. The biggest win I think the biggest win is honestly been just trying to understand the space more deeply and building a actionable framework of targeting AI web searches using entities and actually having that work for our customers. And so right with great change comes great opportunity. And I think that we've finally stumbled upon a workflow and a process that people are seeing success with. And I would like to believe that this particular way of doing things is going to be a durable way to approach AI optimization like AI response optimization moving forward because AI will always need training data and it will always need to validate whether or not the responses it's giving back to the end user are correct, factual, and upto-date. And so when you think about it like that then the role of content becomes around influencing either the training data or and or the validation layer. And so when you think about that it's like yeah that should always happen moving forward. And so I think that that's been the biggest win. >> Awesome. So doing all that you know still finding the the great opportunities and and winning is there any hack that helps you now maybe you know to you personally maybe you're optimizing something in a very smart way or maybe you know meditation [laughter] anything that helps you as a founder to do this. >> Yeah [laughter] a great team you know helps a ton. Yeah, not burning yourself out too hard. Yeah, I try to get in a yoga session like here or there, but yeah, I mean I think the other component is just trading notes, you know. I think we're all in for this wild AI revolution that's unfolding beneath our eyes and it's rewriting the rules of a ton of different, you know, games, you know, like cold outbound still works to some degree, but with AI, you know, kind of around the corner, it's it's basically killing or changing, right, how a lot of things play out. And so the best, you know, thing to do is to just get into a mastermind or a huddle with other practitioners in the space and be like, hey, you know, this is what's working for me. This is not what's working for me. And to have that information exchange, especially at, you know, this junction of this paradigm shift that we're seeing happen, I think is is gamechanging, right? one behind the room conversation with, you know, another person and you might be spamming Reddit or God knows what, right? There's there's all kinds of new tactics that people are trying. You know, probably one of the more creative ones. I've heard of is spinning up like AI agents to basically trade like have conversations with models that then try to convince the model that the brand should like be in the specific like topics that the agent is like having a conversation with. So a good example would be like if I were like oh you know what's the best you know SAS company you know PE groups or whatever and then you know SAS group wasn't mentioned and then the AI agent is like hey why wasn't SAS group mentioned then you know it's literally having an autonomous conversation with these agents and saying like no I think SAS group should be mentioned and basically trying to train the models through a conversation it's like all right well you know that's that's interesting It is. It's something something definitely something to try. Yeah. But super super fascinating. Honestly, I think I've had I mean so many conversations about SEO, AEO, how to figure it out who does what in in the space. And a lot of it has been very confusing, contradictory. And I think this has been the like one of the clearest layout for me like how how it works and what to do with with some great actionable insight. So thank you so much for this. You know, I go to an event that we host and then I see two people just going at it because somebody said, "You know what? There is this and I can't figure it out." And the other one says, "You know, yeah, I can't figure it out either, but I'm trying this thing." And then they're like, "Okay, we have to now [laughter] talk more about this stuff." So, yeah, it's it's really good to hear. Yeah, I can vouch. If you haven't been to a SAS group event, definitely go. Lots of bright minds, lots of, you know, just interesting discourses that you're just not going to get, you know, in in a webinar in a normal like setting. The best secrets are always the ones that are closely held. >> Absolutely. Well, it's been a pleasure having you here. Thank you so much for this conversation. It will be live very soon. And yeah, hope to see you again in Austin. >> Yeah, let's do it. >> Let's do it. Thanks, Bernard. And take care. Thank you. Awesome.
